Refactor error handling page (#649)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/horizon/api-reference/errors/error-handling.mdx

Many actions interact with the Stellar network through the Horizon API, and these possible actions fall into two main categories:

1. Queries (any `GET` request, like to `/accounts`)
2. Transaction submissions (a `POST /transactions`, `POST /transactions_async`).

There are many possible error codes when executing these actions, and you can typically handle these error codes using the following strategies:

- Request adjustments: adjusting the request to resolve structural errors with queries or transaction submissions. Suppose you’ve included a bad parameter, malformed your XDR, or otherwise didn’t follow the endpoint’s specification. In these cases, resolve the error by referencing the details or result codes of the error response.
- Polling and retrying: this is the recommended way to work around latency or congestion issues encountered along the pipeline between your computer and the Stellar network, which can sometimes happen due to the nature of distributed systems.

## Error Handling for Queries

> Many `GET` requests have specific parameter requirements, and while the SDKs can help enforce them, you can still pass invalid arguments (for example, an asset string that isn’t SEP-11 compatible) that error out every time. In this scenario, there’s nothing you can do aside from following the API specification. The `extras` field of the error response will often clue you in on where to look and what to look for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many `GET` requests have specific parameter requirements, and while the SDKs can help enforce them, you can still pass invalid arguments (for example, an asset string that isn’t [SEP-11](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0011.md#asset-trustlineasset) compatible) that error out every time. In this scenario, there’s nothing you can do aside from following the API specification. The `extras` field of the error response will often clue you in on where to look and what to look for.
```

<CodeExample>

```bash
curl -s https://horizon-testnet.stellar.org/claimable_balances/0000 | jq '.extras'
{
    "invalid_field": "id",
    "reason": "Invalid claimable balance ID"
}
```

</CodeExample>

Note that the SDKs make it a point to distinguish an invalid request (as above) versus a missing resource (a `404 Not Found`) (for example, the generic `NetworkError` versus a `NotFoundError` in the JavaScript SDK), where the latter might not be considered an error depending on your situation.

## Error Handling for Transaction Submissions

Horizon currently supports two types of transaction submission endpoints:

> 1. `/transactions_async`: Horizon submits a transaction to Stellar-Core in an asynchronous manner and passes the relevant Stellar-Core response back immediately to the client. It is then the client's responsibility to poll for the status of that transaction.
> 2. `/transactions`: Horizon submits a transaction to Stellar-Core and then waits for it to be ingested in the database. It will either timeout while waiting or return a transaction response on success.

Reviewer 2: A couple things:

- In the async case we mention that its the client's responsibility to poll after getting a response from the submission endpoint. Can we also mention this for the sync case in the event of a timeout?
- The sync case describes the behavior of the endpoint to return timeouts or success responses, but its missing a mention that a transaction failure response could be returned too.

```suggestion
1. `/transactions_async`: Horizon submits a transaction to Stellar-Core in an asynchronous manner and passes the relevant Stellar-Core response back immediately to the client. It is then the client's responsibility to poll for the status of that transaction.
2. `/transactions`: Horizon submits a transaction to Stellar-Core and then waits for it to be ingested into its database. It will either return a success (200) or failure (400) response, or return a timeout response (504), after which it is the client's responsibility to poll for the status of the transaction.
```

> 2. `/transactions`: Horizon submits a transaction to Stellar-Core and then waits for it to be ingested in the database. It will either timeout while waiting or return a transaction response on success.

Reviewer: It will return a response on failure, too, so let's clarify that it's a successful submission to the network but not necessarily a successful transaction?

> There are some resolution strategies that are common between the 2 endpoints while some strategies are more endpoint specific.

Reviewer: grammar suggestion:
```suggestion
There are some resolution strategies that are common between the 2 endpoints while others strategies are more endpoint specific.
```

### Request Adjustments

Certain transaction submission failures also need adjustments to succeed.

> - If the XDR is malformed, or the transaction is otherwise invalid, you’ll encounter a `400 Bad Request` (for example, see excluding a source account). Both transactions and their operations can be easily malformed: look at the `extras.result_codes` field for details and cross-reference them with the appropriate result codes documentation to determine specifics.

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a cross-reference? If not, `see` doesn't make sense here:

```suggestion
- If the XDR is malformed, or the transaction is otherwise invalid, you’ll encounter a `400 Bad Request` (for example, an invalid source account). Both transactions and their operations can be easily malformed or invalid: look at the `extras.result_codes` field for details and cross-reference them with the appropriate result codes documentation to determine specifics.
```

Alternatively, you could say `(for example, [BAD_SEQ](#managing-specific-errors) for an invalid source account)`.

Reviewer: (Also, malformed tells me "bad encoding" vs. invalid which is "valid encoding but not a valid tx in that moment".)

> - Transaction fees are also a safe adjustment. If you get a `tx_insufficient_fee` error, you can modify the fees using a [fee-bump transaction](docs/learn/encyclopedia/transactions-specialized/fee-bump-transactions). Refer to the [Insufficient Fees and Surge Pricing](/docs/data/horizon/api-reference/errors/error-handling#insufficient-fees-and-surge-pricing) section later in this document for more information on managing fees and strategies around it.

Reviewer: Suggestion: clarify fee-bumps earlier:

```suggestion
- Transaction fees are also a safe adjustment by modifying the fees via a [fee-bump transaction](docs/learn/encyclopedia/transactions-specialized/fee-bump-transactions) if you get a `tx_insufficient_fee` error. Refer to the [Insufficient Fees and Surge Pricing](#insufficient-fees-and-surge-pricing) section later in this document for more information on managing fees and strategies around it.
```

Also, relative links are better than absolute!

### Polling and Retrying Transactions

#### Async Transaction Submission

> Submissions using the `/transactions_async` endpoint return an immediate response back from Stellar-Core. There are different actions that clients can take based on the specific `tx_status` returned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submissions using the [`/transactions_async` endpoint](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/horizon/api-reference/resources/submit-a-transaction) return an immediate response back from Stellar-Core. There are different actions that clients can take based on the specific `tx_status` returned:
```

I just realized that we don't have documentation for the new endpoint in the Horizon API (unless I'm blind)! We can add this cross-reference after we've added that in (after this PR).

> 1. `PENDING`: The submission is successful but the transaction is still waiting to be included in a ledger. You should use the [GET /transactions/:transaction_hash](/docs/data/horizon/api-reference/resources/retrieve-a-transaction) endpoint to poll for the submitted transaction and check if it makes into a ledger. Note that even though the submission was successful, it can still fail to get included in the ledger.

Reviewer 2: I think we should note that transactions that are pending inclusion will return 404 from the `GET /transactions/:hash` endpoint until they either fail or get included.

Reviewer 2: This is also relevant in the synchronous approach as well if we're recommending clients to poll after getting a 504, so maybe this note should go in the `Error Handling for Transaction Submissions` section.

<CodeExample>

```js
let server = sdk.Server("https://horizon-testnet.stellar.org");
let contractId = "CA3D5KRYM6CB7OWQ6TWYRR3Z4T7GNZLKERYNZGGA5SOAOPIFY6YQGAXE";
let contract = new StellarSdk.Contract(contractId);

// Right now, this is just the default fee for this example.
const fee = StellarSdk.BASE_FEE;

let transaction = new StellarSdk.TransactionBuilder(account, { fee })
  .setNetworkPassphrase(StellarSdk.Networks.TESTNET)
  .setTimeout(30) // valid for the next 30s
  // Add an operation to call increment() on the contract
  .addOperation(contract.call("increment"))
  .build();

// Sign this transaction with the secret key
// NOTE: signing is transaction is network specific. Test network transactions
// won't work in the public network. To switch networks, use the Network object
// as explained above (look for StellarSdk.Network).
let sourceKeypair = StellarSdk.Keypair.fromSecret(sourceSecretKey);
transaction.sign(sourceKeypair);

server.submitAsyncTransaction(transaction).then((result) => {
  console.log("hash:", result.hash);
  console.log("status:", result.tx_status);
  console.log("errorResultXdr:", result.error_result_xdr);
});
```

> </CodeExample>

Reviewer 2: Can we demonstrate taking the result hash and using it to poll the transaction? I think thats the missing last step here.

Reviewer: Agreed, but let's try not to get too fancy with polling so that people don't blindly copy-paste the fetching code (e.g. just add a sleep before the GET).

#### Synchronous Transaction Submission

Due to the blocking nature of this endpoint, things are a little different compared to the asynchronous strategy. There are 3 possible scenarios that clients can encounter:

1. The submission is successful and Horizon returns the transaction response back. This is the happy path and clients do not need to do anything but wait for Horizon's response.
2. Stellar-Core sends back an `ERROR` response from the submission. Clients should consult the attached error message and retry the submission again.

> 3. Timeouts: Horizon may respond with a `504` HTTP code. This response is not an error but a warning that your transaction hasn't been accepted by the network yet. There could be many possible reasons for the timeout, the most common of which is network congestion, but it could also be due to other transient issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Timeouts: Horizon may respond with a `504` HTTP code. This response is not an error but a warning that your transaction hasn't been accepted by the network yet, so Horizon doesn't know what status to report. There could be many possible reasons for the timeout, the most common of which is network congestion, but it could also be due to other transient issues.
```

   1. **Polling the transaction hash**: Use the transaction hash in the timeout response and poll the [GET /transactions/:transaction_hash](/docs/data/horizon/api-reference/resources/retrieve-a-transaction) endpoint to see if it successfully makes it into a ledger.
   2. **Resubmitting the transaction**: Before attempting any resubmissions, you need to make sure your transaction has timed out based on the time bounds you specified. After your transaction has expired, you can confirm it by polling the transaction again and getting a `tx_too_late` response from Horizon. Rebuild the transaction by updating the timebounds and resubmit the transaction.

> Do note that resubmitting a transaction is only safe when it is unchanged - same operations, signatures, sequence number, etc... Be careful when working around an error that does require changes to the transaction. It can cause duplicate transactions, which can cause problems - double payments, incorrect trustlines, and more. If you continue to face timeouts on retries, consider using a fee-bump transaction to get into the ledger (after the initial transaction's timebound expires) or increasing the maximum fee you’re willing to pay. Read up on [Surge Pricing and Fee Strategies](docs/learn/fundamentals/fees-resource-limits-metering) for more details.

Reviewer: Suggestion: add some UI fanciness for importance 

```suggestion
::: caution

Do note that resubmitting a transaction is only safe when it is unchanged - same operations, signatures, sequence number, etc... Be careful when working around an error that does require changes to the transaction. It can cause duplicate transactions, which can cause problems - double payments, incorrect trustlines, and more. If you continue to face timeouts on retries, consider using a fee-bump transaction to get into the ledger (after the initial transaction's timebound expires) or increasing the maximum fee you’re willing to pay. Read up on [Surge Pricing and Fee Strategies](docs/learn/fundamentals/fees-resource-limits-metering) for more details.

:::
```

### Example: Using Time Bounds

Timebounds are optional but **highly** recommended as they put a definitive time limit on the transaction's finality - after it times out, you will know for sure whether it made it into a ledger. For example, you submit a transaction, and it enters the queue of the Stellar network, but Horizon crashes while giving you a response. Uncertain about the transaction status, you resubmit the transaction (with no changes!) until either (a) Horizon comes back up to give you a reply or (b) your time bounds are exceeded.

There are only two possible results to this scenario: either the transaction makes it into the ledger (exactly once) and Horizon gives you the response, or the transaction never makes it out of the queue, and you receive the corresponding `tx_too_late` response.

Example implementation:

<CodeExample>

```js

> let server = sdk.Server("https://horizon-testnet.stellar.org");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Horizon } from "@stellar/stellar-sdk";

let server = Horizon.Server("https://horizon-testnet.stellar.org");
```

### Example: Invalid Sequence Numbers

These errors typically occur when you have an outdated view of an account. This could be because multiple devices are using this account, you have concurrent submissions happening, or other reasons. The solution is relatively simple: retrieve the account details and try again with an updated sequence number.

<CodeExample>

```js
// suppose `account` is an outdated `AccountResponse` object
let tx = sdk.TransactionBuilder(account, ...)/* etc */.build();
server.submitTransaction(tx).catch(function (error)) {
  if (error.response && error.status == 400 && error.extras &&
      error.extras.result_codes.transaction == sdk.TX_BAD_SEQ) {
    return server.loadAccount(account.accountId())
      .then(function (response) {
        let tx = sdk.TransactionBuilder(response, ...)/* etc */.build()
        return server.submitTransaction(tx);
      });
  }
  // ...other error conditions...
}
```

</CodeExample>

Despite the solution’s simplicity, things can go wrong fast if you don’t understand why the error occurred.

> Suppose you submit transactions from multiple places in your application simultaneously, and your user spammed the Send Payment button a few times in their impatience. If you send the exact same payment transaction for each tap, naturally, only one will succeed. The others will fail with an invalid sequence number (`tx_bad_seq`), and if you resubmit blindly with an updated sequence number (as we do above), these payments will also succeed, resulting in more than one payment being made when only one was intended. So **be very careful when resubmitting transactions** that have been modified to work around an error.

Reviewer: nitty formatting suggestion

```suggestion
Suppose you submit transactions from multiple places in your application simultaneously, and your user spammed a _Send Payment_ button a few times in their impatience. If you send the exact same payment transaction for each tap, naturally, only one will succeed. The others will fail with an invalid sequence number (`tx_bad_seq`), and if you resubmit blindly with an updated sequence number (as we do above), these payments will also succeed, resulting in more than one payment being made when only one was intended. So **be very careful when resubmitting transactions** that have been modified to work around an error.
```

## Managing specific Errors

> Here, we will cover specific errors commonly encountered during transaction submission and direct you to the appropriate resolution. We’ll start with a table of common errors and their codes and descriptions, then dive deeper into some specific ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we will cover specific errors commonly encountered during transaction submission and direct you to the appropriate resolution.
```

It looks like we don't have deeper dives, so either add cross-references back up to the examples or omit this sentence :+1:

Author: Ah nice catch. I think I removed this deep dive stuff but forgot to refactor this sentence.

| `TOO_LATE` | -3 | Ledger `closeTime` after `maxTime` value in the transaction |
| `MISSING_OPERATION` | -4 | No operation was specified |
| `BAD_SEQ` | -5 | Sequence number does not match source account |
| `BAD_AUTH` | -6 | Too few valid signatures / wrong network |
| `INSUFFICIENT_BALANCE` | -7 | Fee would bring account below minimum balance; see our section on [Lumens](/docs/learn/fundamentals/lumens#minimum-balance) for more info |
| `NO_ACCOUNT` | -8 | Source account not found |
| `INSUFFICIENT_FEE` | -9 | Fee is too small; see our section on [Fees](/docs/learn/fundamentals/fees-resource-limits-metering) for more info |
| `BAD_AUTH_EXTRA` | -10 | Unused signatures attached to transaction |
| `INTERNAL_ERROR` | -11 | An unknown error occurred |
| `NOT_SUPPORTED` | -12 | The transaction type is not supported |
| `FEE_BUMP_INNER_FAILED` | -13 | The inner transaction of a fee-bump transaction failed |
| `BAD_SPONSORSHIP` | -14 | The sponsorship is not confirmed |

### Insufficient fees and surge pricing

See the [Fees section](/docs/learn/fundamentals/fees-resource-limits-metering)

### Rate limiting

> Horizon may rate limit requests and return `429 Too Many Requests` error when exceeding the rate limits. If using your own instance, you may want to either increase or disable rate limiting. If you're using a third-party Horizon instance, you may want to deploy your own to have more control over this configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Horizon may rate limit requests and return `429 Too Many Requests` error when exceeding the rate limits. If using your own instance, you may want to either increase or disable rate limiting. If you're using a third-party Horizon instance, you may want to deploy your own to have more control over this configuration or send requests less frequently.
```
